---
source: Berkshire Hathaway Annual Report
year: 2014
type: chairman-letter
url: https://www.berkshirehathaway.com/2014ar/2014ar.pdf
extracted_from: line 309 - 1549
---

To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
Berkshire’s gain in net worth during 2014 was $18.3 billion, which increased the per-share book value of
both our Class A and Class B stock by 8.3%. Over the last 50 years (that is, since present management took over),
per-share book value has grown from $19 to $146,186, a rate of 19.4% compounded annually.*
During our tenure, we have consistently compared the yearly performance of the S&P 500 to the change in
Berkshire’s per-share book value. We’ve done that because book value has been a crude, but useful, tracking device
for the number that really counts: intrinsic business value.
In our early decades, the relationship between book value and intrinsic value was much closer than it is
now. That was true because Berkshire’s assets were then largely securities whose values were continuously restated
to reflect their current market prices. In Wall Street parlance, most of the assets involved in the calculation of book
value were “marked to market.”
Today, our emphasis has shifted in a major way to owning and operating large businesses. Many of these
are worth far more than their cost-based carrying value. But that amount is never revalued upward no matter how
much the value of these companies has increased. Consequently, the gap between Berkshire’s intrinsic value and its
book value has materially widened.
With that in mind, we have added a new set of data – the historical record of Berkshire’s stock price – to
the performance table on the facing page. Market prices, let me stress, have their limitations in the short term.
Monthly or yearly movements of stocks are often erratic and not indicative of changes in intrinsic value. Over time,
however, stock prices and intrinsic value almost invariably converge. Charlie Munger, Berkshire Vice Chairman
and my partner, and I believe that has been true at Berkshire: In our view, the increase in Berkshire’s per-share
intrinsic value over the past 50 years is roughly equal to the 1,826,163% gain in market price of the company’s
shares.

* All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares. Figures for the B shares are 1/1500th of
those shown for A.

3

The Year at Berkshire
It was a good year for Berkshire on all major fronts, except one. Here are the important developments:
‹

Our “Powerhouse Five” – a collection of Berkshire’s largest non-insurance businesses – had a record $12.4
billion of pre-tax earnings in 2014, up $1.6 billion from 2013.* The companies in this sainted group are
Berkshire Hathaway Energy (formerly MidAmerican Energy), BNSF, IMC (I’ve called it Iscar in the past),
Lubrizol and Marmon.
Of the five, only Berkshire Hathaway Energy, then earning $393 million, was owned by us a decade ago.
Subsequently we purchased another three of the five on an all-cash basis. In acquiring the fifth, BNSF, we
paid about 70% of the cost in cash and, for the remainder, issued Berkshire shares that increased the
number outstanding by 6.1%. In other words, the $12 billion gain in annual earnings delivered Berkshire by
the five companies over the ten-year span has been accompanied by only minor dilution. That satisfies our
goal of not simply increasing earnings, but making sure we also increase per-share results.
If the U.S. economy continues to improve in 2015, we expect earnings of our Powerhouse Five to improve
as well. The gain could reach $1 billion, in part because of bolt-on acquisitions by the group that have
already closed or are under contract.

‹

Our bad news from 2014 comes from our group of five as well and is unrelated to earnings. During the
year, BNSF disappointed many of its customers. These shippers depend on us, and service failures can
badly hurt their businesses.
BNSF is, by far, Berkshire’s most important non-insurance subsidiary and, to improve its performance, we
will spend $6 billion on plant and equipment in 2015. That sum is nearly 50% more than any other railroad
has spent in a single year and is a truly extraordinary amount, whether compared to revenues, earnings or
depreciation charges.
Though weather, which was particularly severe last year, will always cause railroads a variety of operating
problems, our responsibility is to do whatever it takes to restore our service to industry-leading levels. That
can’t be done overnight: The extensive work required to increase system capacity sometimes disrupts
operations while it is underway. Recently, however, our outsized expenditures are beginning to show
results. During the last three months, BNSF’s performance metrics have materially improved from last
year’s figures.

‹

Our many dozens of smaller non-insurance businesses earned $5.1 billion last year, up from $4.7 billion in
2013. Here, as with our Powerhouse Five, we expect further gains in 2015. Within this group, we have two
companies that last year earned between $400 million and $600 million, six that earned between $250
million and $400 million, and seven that earned between $100 million and $250 million. This collection of
businesses will increase in both number and earnings. Our ambitions have no finish line.

‹

Berkshire’s huge and growing insurance operation again operated at an underwriting profit in 2014 – that
makes 12 years in a row – and increased its float. During that 12-year stretch, our float – money that
doesn’t belong to us but that we can invest for Berkshire’s benefit – has grown from $41 billion to $84
billion. Though neither that gain nor the size of our float is reflected in Berkshire’s earnings, float
generates significant investment income because of the assets it allows us to hold.

* Throughout this letter, as well as in the “Golden Anniversary” letters included later in this report, all earnings are
stated on a pre-tax basis unless otherwise designated.

4

Meanwhile, our underwriting profit totaled $24 billion during the twelve-year period, including $2.7 billion
earned in 2014. And all of this began with our 1967 purchase of National Indemnity for $8.6 million.
‹

While Charlie and I search for new businesses to buy, our many subsidiaries are regularly making bolt-on
acquisitions. Last year was particularly fruitful: We contracted for 31 bolt-ons, scheduled to cost $7.8
billion in aggregate. The size of these transactions ranged from $400,000 to $2.9 billion. However, the
largest acquisition, Duracell, will not close until the second half of this year. It will then be placed under
Marmon’s jurisdiction.
Charlie and I encourage bolt-ons, if they are sensibly-priced. (Most deals offered us aren’t.) They deploy
capital in activities that fit with our existing businesses and that will be managed by our corps of expert
managers. This means no more work for us, yet more earnings, a combination we find particularly
appealing. We will make many more of these bolt-on deals in future years.

‹

Two years ago my friend, Jorge Paulo Lemann, asked Berkshire to join his 3G Capital group in the
acquisition of Heinz. My affirmative response was a no-brainer: I knew immediately that this partnership
would work well from both a personal and financial standpoint. And it most definitely has.
I’m not embarrassed to admit that Heinz is run far better under Alex Behring, Chairman, and Bernardo
Hees, CEO, than would be the case if I were in charge. They hold themselves to extraordinarily high
performance standards and are never satisfied, even when their results far exceed those of competitors.
We expect to partner with 3G in more activities. Sometimes our participation will only involve a financing
role, as was the case in the recent acquisition of Tim Hortons by Burger King. Our favored arrangement,
however, will usually be to link up as a permanent equity partner (who, in some cases, contributes to the
financing of the deal as well). Whatever the structure, we feel good when working with Jorge Paulo.
Berkshire also has fine partnerships with Mars and Leucadia, and we may form new ones with them or with
other partners. Our participation in any joint activities, whether as a financing or equity partner, will be
limited to friendly transactions.

‹

In October, we contracted to buy Van Tuyl Automotive, a group of 78 automobile dealerships that is
exceptionally well-run. Larry Van Tuyl, the company’s owner, and I met some years ago. He then decided
that if he were ever to sell his company, its home should be Berkshire. Our purchase was recently
completed, and we are now “car guys.”
Larry and his dad, Cecil, spent 62 years building the group, following a strategy that made owner-partners
of all local managers. Creating this mutuality of interests proved over and over to be a winner. Van Tuyl is
now the fifth-largest automotive group in the country, with per-dealership sales figures that are
outstanding.
In recent years, Jeff Rachor has worked alongside Larry, a successful arrangement that will continue. There
are about 17,000 dealerships in the country, and ownership transfers always require approval by the
relevant auto manufacturer. Berkshire’s job is to perform in a manner that will cause manufacturers to
welcome further purchases by us. If we do this – and if we can buy dealerships at sensible prices – we will
build a business that before long will be multiples the size of Van Tuyl’s $9 billion of sales.
With the acquisition of Van Tuyl, Berkshire now owns 9 1⁄ 2 companies that would be listed on the Fortune
500 were they independent (Heinz is the 1⁄ 2). That leaves 490 1⁄ 2 fish in the sea. Our lines are out.

5

‹

Our subsidiaries spent a record $15 billion on plant and equipment during 2014, well over twice their
depreciation charges. About 90% of that money was spent in the United States. Though we will always
invest abroad as well, the mother lode of opportunities runs through America. The treasures that have been
uncovered up to now are dwarfed by those still untapped. Through dumb luck, Charlie and I were born in
the United States, and we are forever grateful for the staggering advantages this accident of birth has given
us.

‹

Berkshire’s yearend employees – including those at Heinz – totaled a record 340,499, up 9,754 from last
year. The increase, I am proud to say, included no gain at headquarters (where 25 people work). No sense
going crazy.

‹

Berkshire increased its ownership interest last year in each of its “Big Four” investments – American
Express, Coca-Cola, IBM and Wells Fargo. We purchased additional shares of IBM (increasing our
ownership to 7.8% versus 6.3% at yearend 2013). Meanwhile, stock repurchases at Coca-Cola, American
Express and Wells Fargo raised our percentage ownership of each. Our equity in Coca-Cola grew from
9.1% to 9.2%, our interest in American Express increased from 14.2% to 14.8% and our ownership of
Wells Fargo grew from 9.2% to 9.4%. And, if you think tenths of a percent aren’t important, ponder this
math: For the four companies in aggregate, each increase of one-tenth of a percent in our ownership raises
Berkshire’s portion of their annual earnings by $50 million.
These four investees possess excellent businesses and are run by managers who are both talented and
shareholder-oriented. At Berkshire, we much prefer owning a non-controlling but substantial portion of a
wonderful company to owning 100% of a so-so business. It’s better to have a partial interest in the Hope
Diamond than to own all of a rhinestone.
If Berkshire’s yearend holdings are used as the marker, our portion of the “Big Four’s” 2014 earnings
before discontinued operations amounted to $4.7 billion (compared to $3.3 billion only three years ago). In
the earnings we report to you, however, we include only the dividends we receive – about $1.6 billion last
year. (Again, three years ago the dividends were $862 million.) But make no mistake: The $3.1 billion of
these companies’ earnings we don’t report are every bit as valuable to us as the portion Berkshire records.
The earnings these investees retain are often used for repurchases of their own stock – a move that
enhances Berkshire’s share of future earnings without requiring us to lay out a dime. Their retained
earnings also fund business opportunities that usually turn out to be advantageous. All that leads us to
expect that the per-share earnings of these four investees, in aggregate, will grow substantially over time
(though 2015 will be a tough year for the group, in part because of the strong dollar). If the expected gains
materialize, dividends to Berkshire will increase and, even more important, so will our unrealized capital
gains. (For the package of four, our unrealized gains already totaled $42 billion at yearend.)
Our flexibility in capital allocation – our willingness to invest large sums passively in non-controlled
businesses – gives us a significant advantage over companies that limit themselves to acquisitions they can
operate. Our appetite for either operating businesses or passive investments doubles our chances of finding
sensible uses for Berkshire’s endless gusher of cash.

‹

I’ve mentioned in the past that my experience in business helps me as an investor and that my investment
experience has made me a better businessman. Each pursuit teaches lessons that are applicable to the other.
And some truths can only be fully learned through experience. (In Fred Schwed’s wonderful book, Where
Are the Customers’ Yachts?, a Peter Arno cartoon depicts a puzzled Adam looking at an eager Eve, while a
caption says, “There are certain things that cannot be adequately explained to a virgin either by words or
pictures.” If you haven’t read Schwed’s book, buy a copy at our annual meeting. Its wisdom and humor are
truly priceless.)

6

Among Arno’s “certain things,” I would include two separate skills, the evaluation of investments and the
management of businesses. I therefore think it’s worthwhile for Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, our two
investment managers, to each have oversight of at least one of our businesses. A sensible opportunity for
them to do so opened up a few months ago when we agreed to purchase two companies that, though
smaller than we would normally acquire, have excellent economic characteristics. Combined, the two earn
$100 million annually on about $125 million of net tangible assets.
I’ve asked Todd and Ted to each take on one as Chairman, in which role they will function in the very
limited way that I do with our larger subsidiaries. This arrangement will save me a minor amount of work
and, more important, make the two of them even better investors than they already are (which is to say
among the best).
************
Late in 2009, amidst the gloom of the Great Recession, we agreed to buy BNSF, the largest purchase in
Berkshire’s history. At the time, I called the transaction an “all-in wager on the economic future of the United
States.”
That kind of commitment was nothing new for us. We’ve been making similar wagers ever since Buffett
Partnership Ltd. acquired control of Berkshire in 1965. For good reason, too: Charlie and I have always considered a
“bet” on ever-rising U.S. prosperity to be very close to a sure thing.
Indeed, who has ever benefited during the past 238 years by betting against America? If you compare our
country’s present condition to that existing in 1776, you have to rub your eyes in wonder. In my lifetime alone, real
per-capita U.S. output has sextupled. My parents could not have dreamed in 1930 of the world their son would see.
Though the preachers of pessimism prattle endlessly about America’s problems, I’ve never seen one who wishes to
emigrate (though I can think of a few for whom I would happily buy a one-way ticket).
The dynamism embedded in our market economy will continue to work its magic. Gains won’t come in a
smooth or uninterrupted manner; they never have. And we will regularly grumble about our government. But, most
assuredly, America’s best days lie ahead.
With this tailwind working for us, Charlie and I hope to build Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic value by
(1) constantly improving the basic earning power of our many subsidiaries; (2) further increasing their earnings
through bolt-on acquisitions; (3) benefiting from the growth of our investees; (4) repurchasing Berkshire shares
when they are available at a meaningful discount from intrinsic value; and (5) making an occasional large
acquisition. We will also try to maximize results for you by rarely, if ever, issuing Berkshire shares.
Those building blocks rest on a rock-solid foundation. A century hence, BNSF and Berkshire Hathaway
Energy will still be playing vital roles in our economy. Homes and autos will remain central to the lives of most
families. Insurance will continue to be essential for both businesses and individuals. Looking ahead, Charlie and I
see a world made to order for Berkshire. We feel fortunate to be entrusted with its management.
Intrinsic Business Value
As much as Charlie and I talk about intrinsic business value, we cannot tell you precisely what that
number is for Berkshire shares (nor, in fact, for any other stock). In our 2010 annual report, however, we laid out the
three elements – one of them qualitative – that we believe are the keys to a sensible estimate of Berkshire’s intrinsic
value. That discussion is reproduced in full on pages 123-124.
Here is an update of the two quantitative factors: In 2014 our per-share investments increased 8.4% to
$140,123, and our earnings from businesses other than insurance and investments increased 19% to $10,847 per
share.

7

Since 1970, our per-share investments have increased at a rate of 19% compounded annually, and our
earnings figure has grown at a 20.6% clip. It is no coincidence that the price of Berkshire stock over the ensuing 44
years has increased at a rate very similar to that of our two measures of value. Charlie and I like to see gains in both
sectors, but our main focus is to build operating earnings. That’s why we were pleased to exchange our Phillips 66
and Graham Holdings stock for operating businesses last year and to contract with Procter and Gamble to acquire
Duracell by means of a similar exchange set to close in 2015.
************
Now, let’s examine the four major sectors of our operations. Each has vastly different balance sheet and
income characteristics from the others. So we’ll present them as four separate businesses, which is how Charlie and
I view them (though there are important and enduring advantages to having them all under one roof). Our goal is to
provide you with the information we would wish to have if our positions were reversed, with you being the
reporting manager and we the absentee shareholders. (But don’t get any ideas!)
Insurance
Let’s look first at insurance, Berkshire’s core operation. That industry has been the engine that has
propelled our expansion since 1967, when we acquired National Indemnity and its sister company, National Fire &
Marine, for $8.6 million. Though that purchase had monumental consequences for Berkshire, its execution was
simplicity itself.
Jack Ringwalt, a friend of mine who was the controlling shareholder of the two companies, came to my
office saying he would like to sell. Fifteen minutes later, we had a deal. Neither of Jack’s companies had ever had an
audit by a public accounting firm, and I didn’t ask for one. My reasoning: (1) Jack was honest and (2) He was also a
bit quirky and likely to walk away if the deal became at all complicated.
On pages 128-129, we reproduce the 1 1⁄ 2-page purchase agreement we used to finalize the transaction.
That contract was homemade: Neither side used a lawyer. Per page, this has to be Berkshire’s best deal: National
Indemnity today has GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net worth of $111 billion, which exceeds that
of any other insurer in the world.
One reason we were attracted to the property-casualty business was its financial characteristics: P/C
insurers receive premiums upfront and pay claims later. In extreme cases, such as those arising from certain
workers’ compensation accidents, payments can stretch over many decades. This collect-now, pay-later model
leaves P/C companies holding large sums – money we call “float” – that will eventually go to others. Meanwhile,
insurers get to invest this float for their benefit. Though individual policies and claims come and go, the amount of
float an insurer holds usually remains fairly stable in relation to premium volume. Consequently, as our business
grows, so does our float. And how we have grown, as the following table shows:
Year
1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2014

Float (in $ millions)
$
39
237
1,632
27,871
65,832
83,921

Further gains in float will be tough to achieve. On the plus side, GEICO and our new commercial
insurance operation are almost certain to grow at a good clip. National Indemnity’s reinsurance division, however, is
party to a number of run-off contracts whose float drifts downward. If we do in time experience a decline in float, it
will be very gradual – at the outside no more than 3% in any year. The nature of our insurance contracts is such that
we can never be subject to immediate demands for sums that are large compared to our cash resources. This strength
is a key pillar in Berkshire’s economic fortress.

8

If our premiums exceed the total of our expenses and eventual losses, we register an underwriting profit
that adds to the investment income our float produces. When such a profit is earned, we enjoy the use of free money
– and, better yet, get paid for holding it.
Unfortunately, the wish of all insurers to achieve this happy result creates intense competition, so
vigorous indeed that it frequently causes the P/C industry as a whole to operate at a significant underwriting loss.
This loss, in effect, is what the industry pays to hold its float. Competitive dynamics almost guarantee that the
insurance industry, despite the float income all its companies enjoy, will continue its dismal record of earning
subnormal returns on tangible net worth as compared to other American businesses. The prolonged period of low
interest rates our country is now dealing with causes earnings on float to decrease, thereby exacerbating the profit
problems of the industry.
As noted in the first section of this report, Berkshire has now operated at an underwriting profit for
twelve consecutive years, our pre-tax gain for the period having totaled $24 billion. Looking ahead, I believe we
will continue to underwrite profitably in most years. Doing so is the daily focus of all of our insurance managers,
who know that while float is valuable, its benefits can be drowned by poor underwriting results. That message is
given at least lip service by all insurers; at Berkshire it is a religion.
So how does our float affect intrinsic value? When Berkshire’s book value is calculated, the full amount
of our float is deducted as a liability, just as if we had to pay it out tomorrow and could not replenish it. But to think
of float as strictly a liability is incorrect; it should instead be viewed as a revolving fund. Daily, we pay old claims
and related expenses – a huge $22.7 billion to more than six million claimants in 2014 – and that reduces float. Just
as surely, we each day write new business and thereby generate new claims that add to float.
If our revolving float is both costless and long-enduring, which I believe it will be, the true value of this
liability is dramatically less than the accounting liability. Owing $1 that in effect will never leave the premises –
because new business is almost certain to deliver a substitute – is worlds different from owing $1 that will go out the
door tomorrow and not be replaced. The two types of liabilities are treated as equals, however, under GAAP.
A partial offset to this overstated liability is a $15.5 billion “goodwill” asset that we incurred in buying
our insurance companies and that increases book value. In very large part, this goodwill represents the price we paid
for the float-generating capabilities of our insurance operations. The cost of the goodwill, however, has no bearing
on its true value. For example, if an insurance company sustains large and prolonged underwriting losses, any
goodwill asset carried on the books should be deemed valueless, whatever its original cost.
Fortunately, that does not describe Berkshire. Charlie and I believe the true economic value of our
insurance goodwill – what we would happily pay for float of similar quality were we to purchase an insurance
operation possessing it – to be far in excess of its historic carrying value. Under present accounting rules (with
which we agree) this excess value will never be entered on our books. But I can assure you that it’s real. That’s one
reason – a huge reason – why we believe Berkshire’s intrinsic business value substantially exceeds its book value.
************
Berkshire’s attractive insurance economics exist only because we have some terrific managers running
disciplined operations that possess hard-to-replicate business models. Let me tell you about the major units.
First by float size is the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group, managed by Ajit Jain. Ajit insures risks
that no one else has the desire or the capital to take on. His operation combines capacity, speed, decisiveness and,
most important, brains in a manner unique in the insurance business. Yet he never exposes Berkshire to risks that
are inappropriate in relation to our resources.

9

Indeed, we are far more conservative in avoiding risk than most large insurers. For example, if the
insurance industry should experience a $250 billion loss from some mega-catastrophe – a loss about triple anything
it has ever experienced – Berkshire as a whole would likely record a significant profit for the year because of its
many streams of earnings. We would also remain awash in cash and be looking for large opportunities in a market
that might well have gone into shock. Meanwhile, other major insurers and reinsurers would be far in the red, if not
facing insolvency.
Ajit’s underwriting skills are unmatched. His mind, moreover, is an idea factory that is always looking
for more lines of business he can add to his current assortment. Last year I told you about his formation of Berkshire
Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BHSI”). This initiative took us into commercial insurance, where we were instantly
welcomed by both major insurance brokers and corporate risk managers throughout America. Previously, we had
written only a few specialized lines of commercial insurance.
BHSI is led by Peter Eastwood, an experienced underwriter who is widely respected in the insurance
world. During 2014, Peter expanded his talented group, moving into both international business and new lines of
insurance. We repeat last year’s prediction that BHSI will be a major asset for Berkshire, one that will generate
volume in the billions within a few years.
************
We have another reinsurance powerhouse in General Re, managed by Tad Montross.
At bottom, a sound insurance operation needs to adhere to four disciplines. It must (1) understand all
exposures that might cause a policy to incur losses; (2) conservatively assess the likelihood of any exposure actually
causing a loss and the probable cost if it does; (3) set a premium that, on average, will deliver a profit after both
prospective loss costs and operating expenses are covered; and (4) be willing to walk away if the appropriate
premium can’t be obtained.
Many insurers pass the first three tests and flunk the fourth. They simply can’t turn their back on business
that is being eagerly written by their competitors. That old line, “The other guy is doing it, so we must as well,”
spells trouble in any business, but in none more so than insurance.
Tad has observed all four of the insurance commandments, and it shows in his results. General Re’s huge
float has been considerably better than cost-free under his leadership, and we expect that, on average, to continue.
We are particularly enthusiastic about General Re’s international life reinsurance business, which has grown
consistently and profitably since we acquired the company in 1998.
It can be remembered that soon after we purchased General Re, it was beset by problems that caused
commentators – and me as well, briefly – to believe I had made a huge mistake. That day is long gone. General Re
is now a gem.
************
Finally, there is GEICO, the insurer on which I cut my teeth 64 years ago. GEICO is managed by Tony
Nicely, who joined the company at 18 and completed 53 years of service in 2014. Tony became CEO in 1993, and
since then the company has been flying. There is no better manager than Tony.
When I was first introduced to GEICO in January 1951, I was blown away by the huge cost advantage the
company enjoyed compared to the expenses borne by the giants of the industry. It was clear to me that GEICO
would succeed because it deserved to succeed. No one likes to buy auto insurance. Almost everyone, though, likes
to drive. The insurance consequently needed is a major expenditure for most families. Savings matter to them – and
only a low-cost operation can deliver these. Indeed, at least 40% of the people reading this letter can save money by
insuring with GEICO. So stop reading and go to geico.com or call 800-368-2734.

10

GEICO’s cost advantage is the factor that has enabled the company to gobble up market share year after
year. (We ended 2014 at 10.8% compared to 2.5% in 1995, when Berkshire acquired control of GEICO.) The
company’s low costs create a moat – an enduring one – that competitors are unable to cross. Our gecko never tires
of telling Americans how GEICO can save them important money. The gecko, I should add, has one particularly
endearing quality – he works without pay. Unlike a human spokesperson, he never gets a swelled head from his
fame nor does he have an agent to constantly remind us how valuable he is. I love the little guy.
************
In addition to our three major insurance operations, we own a group of smaller companies, most of them
plying their trade in odd corners of the insurance world. In aggregate, these companies are a growing operation that
consistently delivers an underwriting profit. Indeed, over the past decade, they have earned $2.95 billion from
underwriting while growing their float from $1.7 billion to $8.6 billion. Charlie and I treasure these companies and
their managers.

Insurance Operations
BH Reinsurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
GEICO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Primary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Underwriting Profit
Yearend Float
(in millions)
2014
2013
2014
2013
$ 606
$1,294
$42,454
$37,231
277
283
19,280
20,013
1,159
1,127
13,569
12,566
626
385
8,618
7,430
$2,668
$3,089
$83,921
$77,240

************
Simply put, insurance is the sale of promises. The “customer” pays money now; the insurer promises to
pay money in the future should certain unwanted events occur.
Sometimes, the promise will not be tested for decades. (Think of life insurance bought by people in their
20s.) Therefore, both the ability and willingness of the insurer to pay, even if economic chaos prevails when
payment time arrives, is all-important.
Berkshire’s promises have no equal, a fact affirmed in recent years by certain of the world’s largest and
most sophisticated P/C insurers, who wished to shed themselves of huge and exceptionally long-lived liabilities.
That is, these insurers wished to “cede” these liabilities – most of them potential losses from asbestos claims – to a
reinsurer. They needed the right one, though: If a reinsurer fails to pay a loss, the original insurer is still on the hook
for it. Choosing a reinsurer, therefore, that down the road proves to be financially strapped or a bad actor threatens
the original insurer with getting huge liabilities right back in its lap.
Last year, our premier position in reinsurance was reaffirmed by our writing a policy carrying a $3 billion
single premium. I believe that the policy’s size has only been exceeded by our 2007 transaction with Lloyd’s, in
which the premium was $7.1 billion.
In fact, I know of only eight P/C policies in history that had a single premium exceeding $1 billion. And,
yes, all eight were written by Berkshire. Certain of these contracts will require us to make substantial payments 50
years or more from now. When major insurers have needed an unquestionable promise that payments of this type
will be made, Berkshire has been the party – the only party – to call.
************
Berkshire’s great managers, premier financial strength and a variety of business models protected by
wide moats amount to something unique in the insurance world. This assemblage of strengths is a huge asset for
Berkshire shareholders that will only get more valuable with time.

11

Regulated, Capital-Intensive Businesses
We have two major operations, BNSF and Berkshire Hathaway Energy (“BHE”), that share important
characteristics distinguishing them from our other businesses. Consequently, we assign them their own section in
this letter and split out their combined financial statistics in our GAAP balance sheet and income statement.
A key characteristic of both companies is their huge investment in very long-lived, regulated assets, with
these partially funded by large amounts of long-term debt that is not guaranteed by Berkshire. Our credit is in fact
not needed because each company has earning power that even under terrible economic conditions will far exceed
its interest requirements. Last year, for example, BNSF’s interest coverage was more than 8:1. (Our definition of
coverage is pre-tax earnings/interest, not EBITDA/interest, a commonly used measure we view as seriously flawed.)
At BHE, meanwhile, two factors ensure the company’s ability to service its debt under all circumstances.
The first is common to all utilities: recession-resistant earnings, which result from these companies offering an
essential service on an exclusive basis. The second is enjoyed by few other utilities: a great diversity of earnings
streams, which shield us from being seriously harmed by any single regulatory body. Recently, we have further
broadened that base through our $3 billion (Canadian) acquisition of AltaLink, an electric transmission system
serving 85% of Alberta’s population. This multitude of profit streams, supplemented by the inherent advantage of
being owned by a strong parent, has enabled BHE and its utility subsidiaries to significantly lower their cost of debt.
This economic fact benefits both us and our customers.
Every day, our two subsidiaries power the American economy in major ways:
•

BNSF carries about 15% (measured by ton-miles) of all inter-city freight, whether it is transported by
truck, rail, water, air, or pipeline. Indeed, we move more ton-miles of goods than anyone else, a fact
establishing BNSF as the most important artery in our economy’s circulatory system.
BNSF, like all railroads, also moves its cargo in an extraordinarily fuel-efficient and environmentally
friendly way, carrying a ton of freight about 500 miles on a single gallon of diesel fuel. Trucks taking on
the same job guzzle about four times as much fuel.

•

BHE’s utilities serve regulated retail customers in eleven states. No utility company stretches further. In
addition, we are a leader in renewables: From a standing start ten years ago, BHE now accounts for 6% of
the country’s wind generation capacity and 7% of its solar generation capacity. Beyond these businesses,
BHE owns two large pipelines that deliver 8% of our country’s natural gas consumption; the recentlypurchased electric transmission operation in Canada; and major electric businesses in the U.K. and
Philippines. And the beat goes on: We will continue to buy and build utility operations throughout the
world for decades to come.
BHE can make these investments because it retains all of its earnings. In fact, last year the company
retained more dollars of earnings – by far – than any other American electric utility. We and our
regulators see this 100% retention policy as an important advantage – one almost certain to distinguish
BHE from other utilities for many years to come.

When BHE completes certain renewables projects that are underway, the company’s renewables portfolio
will have cost $15 billion. In addition, we have conventional projects in the works that will also cost many billions.
We relish making such commitments as long as they promise reasonable returns – and, on that front, we put a large
amount of trust in future regulation.
Our confidence is justified both by our past experience and by the knowledge that society will forever
need massive investments in both transportation and energy. It is in the self-interest of governments to treat capital
providers in a manner that will ensure the continued flow of funds to essential projects. It is concomitantly in our
self-interest to conduct our operations in a way that earns the approval of our regulators and the people they
represent.

12

Last year we fully met this objective at BHE, just as we have in every year of our ownership. Our rates
remain low, our customer satisfaction is high and our record for employee safety is among the best in the industry.
The story at BNSF, however – as I noted earlier – was not good in 2014, a year in which the railroad
disappointed many of its customers. This problem occurred despite the record capital expenditures that BNSF has
made in recent years, with those having far exceeded the outlays made by Union Pacific, our principal competitor.
The two railroads are of roughly equal size measured by revenues, though we carry considerably more
freight (measured either by carloads or ton-miles). But our service problems exceeded Union Pacific’s last year, and
we lost market share as a result. Moreover, U.P.’s earnings beat ours by a record amount. Clearly, we have a lot of
work to do.
We are wasting no time: As I also mentioned earlier, we will spend $6 billion in 2015 on improving our
railroad’s operation. That will amount to about 26% of estimated revenues (a calculation that serves as the
industry’s yardstick). Outlays of this magnitude are largely unheard of among railroads. For us, this percentage
compares to our average of 18% in 2009-2013 and to U.P.’s projection for the near future of 16-17%. Our huge
investments will soon lead to a system with greater capacity and much better service. Improved profits should
follow.
Here are the key figures for Berkshire Hathaway Energy and BNSF:
Berkshire Hathaway Energy (89.9% owned)

Earnings (in millions)
2014
2013
2012

U.K. utilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Iowa utility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nevada utilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PacifiCorp (primarily Oregon and Utah) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gas Pipelines (Northern Natural and Kern River) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HomeServices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other (net) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

527
298
549
1,010
379
139
236

$

362
230
—
982
385
139
4

$

429
236
—
737
383
82
91

Operating earnings before corporate interest and taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3,138
427
616

2,102
296
170

1,958
314
172

Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 2,095

$ 1,636

$ 1,472

Earnings applicable to Berkshire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 1,882

$ 1,470

$ 1,323

BNSF

Earnings (in millions)
2014

2013

2012

Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operating expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$23,239
16,237

$22,014
15,357

$20,835
14,835

Operating earnings before interest and taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interest (net) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7,002
833
2,300

6,657
729
2,135

6,000
623
2,005

Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 3,869

$ 3,793

$ 3,372

13

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Operations
Our activities in this part of Berkshire cover the waterfront. Let’s look, though, at a summary balance sheet
and earnings statement for the entire group.
Balance Sheet 12/31/14 (in millions)
Assets

Liabilities and Equity

Cash and equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accounts and notes receivable . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 5,765
8,264

Notes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Inventory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10,236
1,117

Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10,699

Total current assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

25,382

Goodwill and other intangibles . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fixed assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

28,107
13,806
3,793

Deferred taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Term debt and other liabilities . . . . . . . . . . .
Non-controlling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Berkshire equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3,801
4,269
492
51,827

$71,088

$

965
9,734

$71,088

Earnings Statement (in millions)
2014

2013*

2012*

Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Operating expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$97,689
90,788
109

$93,472
87,208
104

$81,432
75,734
112

Pre-tax earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income taxes and non-controlling interests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6,792
2,324

6,160
2,283

5,586
2,229

Net earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 4,468

$ 3,877

$ 3,357

*Earnings for 2012 and 2013 have been restated to exclude Marmon’s leasing operations, which are now included in
the Finance and Financial Products section.
Our income and expense data conforming to GAAP is on page 49. In contrast, the operating expense
figures above are non-GAAP and exclude some purchase-accounting items (primarily the amortization of certain
intangible assets). We present the data in this manner because Charlie and I believe the adjusted numbers more
accurately reflect the true economic expenses and profits of the businesses aggregated in the table than do GAAP
figures.
I won’t explain all of the adjustments – some are tiny and arcane – but serious investors should understand
the disparate nature of intangible assets. Some truly deplete over time, while others in no way lose value. For
software, as a big example, amortization charges are very real expenses. The concept of making charges against
other intangibles, such as the amortization of customer relationships, however, arises through purchase-accounting
rules and clearly does not reflect reality. GAAP accounting draws no distinction between the two types of charges.
Both, that is, are recorded as expenses when earnings are calculated – even though from an investor’s viewpoint
they could not be more different.

14

In the GAAP-compliant figures we show on page 49, amortization charges of $1.15 billion have been
deducted as expenses. We would call about 20% of these “real,” the rest not. The “non-real” charges, once nonexistent at Berkshire, have become significant because of the many acquisitions we have made. Non-real
amortization charges will almost certainly rise further as we acquire more companies.
The GAAP-compliant table on page 67 gives you the current status of our intangible assets. We now have
$7.4 billion left to amortize, of which $4.1 billion will be charged over the next five years. Eventually, of course,
every dollar of non-real costs becomes entirely charged off. When that happens, reported earnings increase even if
true earnings are flat.
Depreciation charges, we want to emphasize, are different: Every dime of depreciation expense we report
is a real cost. That’s true, moreover, at most other companies. When CEOs tout EBITDA as a valuation guide, wire
them up for a polygraph test.
Our public reports of earnings will, of course, continue to conform to GAAP. To embrace reality, however,
you should remember to add back most of the amortization charges we report.
************
To get back to our many manufacturing, service and retailing operations, they sell products ranging from
lollipops to jet airplanes. Some of this sector’s businesses, measured by earnings on unleveraged net tangible assets,
enjoy terrific economics, producing profits that run from 25% after-tax to far more than 100%. Others generate good
returns in the area of 12% to 20%. A few, however, have very poor returns, the result of some serious mistakes I
made in my job of capital allocation. I was not misled: I simply was wrong in my evaluation of the economic
dynamics of the company or the industry in which it operates.
Fortunately, my blunders normally involved relatively small acquisitions. Our large buys have generally
worked out well and, in a few cases, more than well. I have not, nonetheless, made my last mistake in purchasing
either businesses or stocks. Not everything works out as planned.
Viewed as a single entity, the companies in this group are an excellent business. They employed an average
of $24 billion of net tangible assets during 2014 and, despite their holding large quantities of excess cash and using
little leverage, earned 18.7% after-tax on that capital.
Of course, a business with terrific economics can be a bad investment if it is bought for too high a price. We
have paid substantial premiums to net tangible assets for most of our businesses, a cost that is reflected in the large
figure we show for goodwill. Overall, however, we are getting a decent return on the capital we have deployed in
this sector. Furthermore, the intrinsic value of these businesses, in aggregate, exceeds their carrying value by a good
margin, and that premium is likely to widen. Even so, the difference between intrinsic value and carrying value in
both the insurance and regulated-industry segments is far greater. It is there that the truly big winners reside.
************
We have far too many companies in this group to comment on them individually. Moreover, their
competitors – both current and potential – read this report. In a few of our businesses we might be disadvantaged if
others knew our numbers. In some of our operations that are not of a size material to an evaluation of Berkshire,
therefore, we only disclose what is required. You can find a good bit of detail about many of our operations,
however, on pages 97-100.

15

Finance and Financial Products
This year we include in this section Marmon’s very sizable leasing operations, whose wares are railcars,
containers and cranes. We have also restated the previous two years to reflect that change. Why have we made it? At
one time there was a large minority ownership at Marmon, and I felt it was more understandable to include all of the
company’s operations in one place. Today we own virtually 100% of Marmon, which makes me think you will gain
more insight into our various businesses if we include Marmon’s leasing operations under this heading. (The figures
for the many dozens of Marmon’s other businesses remain in the previous section.)
Our other leasing and rental operations are conducted by CORT (furniture) and XTRA (semi-trailers).
These companies are industry leaders and have substantially increased their earnings as the American economy has
gained strength. Both companies have invested more money in new equipment than have many of their competitors,
and that’s paying off.
Kevin Clayton has again delivered an industry-leading performance at Clayton Homes, the largest home
builder in America. Last year, Clayton sold 30,871 homes, about 45% of the manufactured homes bought by
Americans. When we purchased Clayton in 2003 for $1.7 billion, its share was 14%.
Key to Clayton’s earnings is the company’s $13 billion mortgage portfolio. During the financial panic of
2008 and 2009, when funding for the industry dried up, Clayton was able to keep lending because of Berkshire’s
backing. In fact, we continued during that period to finance our competitors’ retail sales as well as our own.
Many of Clayton’s borrowers have low incomes and mediocre FICO scores. But thanks to the company’s
sensible lending practices, its portfolio performed well during the recession, meaning a very high percentage of our
borrowers kept their homes. Our blue-collar borrowers, in many cases, proved much better credit risks than their
higher-income brethren.
At Marmon’s railroad-car operation, lease rates have improved substantially over the past few years. The
nature of this business, however, is that only 20% or so of our leases expire annually. Consequently, improved
pricing only gradually works its way into our revenue stream. The trend, though, is strong. Our 105,000-car fleet
consists largely of tank cars, but only 8% of those transport crude oil.
One further fact about our rail operation is important for you to know: Unlike many other lessors, we
manufacture our own tank cars, about 6,000 of them in a good year. We do not book any profit when we transfer
cars from our manufacturing division to our leasing division. Our fleet is consequently placed on our books at a
“bargain” price. The difference between that figure and a “retail” price is only slowly reflected in our earnings
through smaller annual depreciation charges that we enjoy over the 30-year life of the car. Because of that fact as
well as others, Marmon’s rail fleet is worth considerably more than the $5 billion figure at which it is carried on our
books.
Here’s the earnings recap for this sector:
2014

2013

2012

(in millions)
Berkadia (our 50% share) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clayton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marmon – Containers and Cranes . . . . .
Marmon – Railcars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
XTRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Net financial income* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

122
558
36
238
442
147
296

$

80
416
40
226
353
125
324

$

1,839

$

1,564

* Excludes capital gains or losses

16

$

35
255
42
246
299
106
410

$ 1,393

Investments
Below we list our fifteen common stock investments that at yearend had the largest market value.
12/31/14
Shares**

Percentage of
Company
Owned

Company

Cost*

Market

(in millions)
151,610,700
400,000,000
18,513,482
15,430,586
24,617,939
13,062,594
76,971,817
24,669,778
20,060,390
52,477,678
22,169,930
96,890,665
43,387,980
67,707,544
483,470,853

American Express Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Coca-Cola Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deere & Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
DIRECTV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
International Business Machines Corp. . . . . . .
Moody’s Corporation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Munich Re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Procter & Gamble Company . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sanofi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
U.S. Bancorp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
USG Corporation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wells Fargo & Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total Common Stocks Carried at Market . . . .

14.8
9.2
8.6
4.5
4.9
3.0
7.8
12.1
11.8
1.9
1.7
5.4
30.0
2.1
9.4

$ 1,287
1,299
843
1,253
1,454
750
13,157
248
2,990
336
1,721
3,033
836
3,798
11,871
10,180

$

14,106
16,888
1,402
1,365
2,134
2,532
12,349
2,364
4,023
4,683 ***
2,032
4,355
1,214
5,815
26,504
15,704

$55,056

$ 117,470

*This is our actual purchase price and also our tax basis; GAAP “cost” differs in a few cases because of write-ups or
write-downs that have been required under GAAP rules.
**Excludes shares held by pension funds of Berkshire subsidiaries.
***Held under contract of sale for this amount.
Berkshire has one major equity position that is not included in the table: We can buy 700 million shares
of Bank of America at any time prior to September 2021 for $5 billion. At yearend these shares were worth $12.5
billion. We are likely to purchase the shares just before expiration of our option. In the meantime, it is important for
you to realize that Bank of America is, in effect, our fourth largest equity investment – and one we value highly.
************
Attentive readers will notice that Tesco, which last year appeared in the list of our largest common stock
investments, is now absent. An attentive investor, I’m embarrassed to report, would have sold Tesco shares earlier. I
made a big mistake with this investment by dawdling.
At the end of 2012 we owned 415 million shares of Tesco, then and now the leading food retailer in the
U.K. and an important grocer in other countries as well. Our cost for this investment was $2.3 billion, and the
market value was a similar amount.

17

In 2013, I soured somewhat on the company’s then-management and sold 114 million shares, realizing a
profit of $43 million. My leisurely pace in making sales would prove expensive. Charlie calls this sort of behavior
“thumb-sucking.” (Considering what my delay cost us, he is being kind.)
During 2014, Tesco’s problems worsened by the month. The company’s market share fell, its margins
contracted and accounting problems surfaced. In the world of business, bad news often surfaces serially: You see a
cockroach in your kitchen; as the days go by, you meet his relatives.
We sold Tesco shares throughout the year and are now out of the position. (The company, we should
mention, has hired new management, and we wish them well.) Our after-tax loss from this investment was $444
million, about 1/5 of 1% of Berkshire’s net worth. In the past 50 years, we have only once realized an investment
loss that at the time of sale cost us 2% of our net worth. Twice, we experienced 1% losses. All three of these losses
occurred in the 1974-1975 period, when we sold stocks that were very cheap in order to buy others we believed to
be even cheaper.
************
Our investment results have been helped by a terrific tailwind. During the 1964-2014 period, the S&P 500
rose from 84 to 2,059, which, with reinvested dividends, generated the overall return of 11,196% shown on page 2.
Concurrently, the purchasing power of the dollar declined a staggering 87%. That decrease means that it now takes
$1 to buy what could be bought for 13¢ in 1965 (as measured by the Consumer Price Index).
There is an important message for investors in that disparate performance between stocks and dollars.
Think back to our 2011 annual report, in which we defined investing as “the transfer to others of purchasing power
now with the reasoned expectation of receiving more purchasing power – after taxes have been paid on nominal
gains – in the future.”
The unconventional, but inescapable, conclusion to be drawn from the past fifty years is that it has been far
safer to invest in a diversified collection of American businesses than to invest in securities – Treasuries, for
example – whose values have been tied to American currency. That was also true in the preceding half-century, a
period including the Great Depression and two world wars. Investors should heed this history. To one degree or
another it is almost certain to be repeated during the next century.
Stock prices will always be far more volatile than cash-equivalent holdings. Over the long term, however,
currency-denominated instruments are riskier investments – far riskier investments – than widely-diversified stock
portfolios that are bought over time and that are owned in a manner invoking only token fees and commissions. That
lesson has not customarily been taught in business schools, where volatility is almost universally used as a proxy for
risk. Though this pedagogic assumption makes for easy teaching, it is dead wrong: Volatility is far from
synonymous with risk. Popular formulas that equate the two terms lead students, investors and CEOs astray.
It is true, of course, that owning equities for a day or a week or a year is far riskier (in both nominal and
purchasing-power terms) than leaving funds in cash-equivalents. That is relevant to certain investors – say,
investment banks – whose viability can be threatened by declines in asset prices and which might be forced to sell
securities during depressed markets. Additionally, any party that might have meaningful near-term needs for funds
should keep appropriate sums in Treasuries or insured bank deposits.
For the great majority of investors, however, who can – and should – invest with a multi-decade horizon,
quotational declines are unimportant. Their focus should remain fixed on attaining significant gains in purchasing
power over their investing lifetime. For them, a diversified equity portfolio, bought over time, will prove far less
risky than dollar-based securities.

18

If the investor, instead, fears price volatility, erroneously viewing it as a measure of risk, he may,
ironically, end up doing some very risky things. Recall, if you will, the pundits who six years ago bemoaned falling
stock prices and advised investing in “safe” Treasury bills or bank certificates of deposit. People who heeded this
sermon are now earning a pittance on sums they had previously expected would finance a pleasant retirement. (The
S&P 500 was then below 700; now it is about 2,100.) If not for their fear of meaningless price volatility, these
investors could have assured themselves of a good income for life by simply buying a very low-cost index fund
whose dividends would trend upward over the years and whose principal would grow as well (with many ups and
downs, to be sure).
Investors, of course, can, by their own behavior, make stock ownership highly risky. And many do. Active
trading, attempts to “time” market movements, inadequate diversification, the payment of high and unnecessary fees
to managers and advisors, and the use of borrowed money can destroy the decent returns that a life-long owner of
equities would otherwise enjoy. Indeed, borrowed money has no place in the investor’s tool kit: Anything can
happen anytime in markets. And no advisor, economist, or TV commentator – and definitely not Charlie nor I – can
tell you when chaos will occur. Market forecasters will fill your ear but will never fill your wallet.
The commission of the investment sins listed above is not limited to “the little guy.” Huge institutional
investors, viewed as a group, have long underperformed the unsophisticated index-fund investor who simply sits
tight for decades. A major reason has been fees: Many institutions pay substantial sums to consultants who, in turn,
recommend high-fee managers. And that is a fool’s game.
There are a few investment managers, of course, who are very good – though in the short run, it’s difficult
to determine whether a great record is due to luck or talent. Most advisors, however, are far better at generating high
fees than they are at generating high returns. In truth, their core competence is salesmanship. Rather than listen to
their siren songs, investors – large and small – should instead read Jack Bogle’s The Little Book of Common Sense
Investing.
Decades ago, Ben Graham pinpointed the blame for investment failure, using a quote from Shakespeare:
“The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves.”
The Annual Meeting
The annual meeting will be held on Saturday, May 2nd at the CenturyLink Center. Last year’s attendance
of 39,000 set a record, and we expect a further increase this year as we celebrate our Golden Anniversary. Be there
when the doors open at 7 a.m.
Berkshire’s talented Carrie Sova will again be in charge. Carrie joined us six years ago at the age of 24 as
a secretary. Then, four years ago, I asked her to take charge of the meeting – a huge undertaking, requiring a
multitude of skills – and she jumped at the chance. Carrie is unflappable, ingenious and expert at bringing out the
best in the hundreds who work with her. She is aided by our entire home office crew who enjoy pitching in to make
the weekend fun and informative for our owners.
And, yes, we also try to sell our visiting shareholders our products while they’re here. In fact, this year
we will substantially increase the hours available for purchases, opening for business at the CenturyLink on Friday,
May 1st, from noon to 5 p.m. as well as the usual 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. on meeting day. So bring a smile to Charlie’s face
and do some serious shopping.
Get up early on Saturday morning. At 6:20 a.m., Norman and Jake, two Texas longhorns each weighing
about a ton, will proceed down 10th Street to the CenturyLink. Aboard them will be a couple of our Justin Boot
executives, who do double duty as cowboys. Following the steers will be four horses pulling a Wells Fargo
stagecoach. Berkshire already markets planes, trains and automobiles. Adding steers and stagecoaches to our
portfolio should seal our reputation as America’s all-purpose transportation company.

19

At about 7:30 a.m. on Saturday, we will have our fourth International Newspaper Tossing Challenge. Our
target again will be a Clayton Home porch, located precisely 35 feet from the throwing line. When I was a teenager
– in my one brief flirtation with honest labor – I tossed about 500,000 papers. So I think I’m pretty good. Challenge
me! Humiliate me! Knock me down a peg! I’ll buy a Dilly Bar for anyone who lands his or her throw closer to the
doorstep than I do. The papers will run 36 to 42 pages, and you must fold them yourself (no rubber bands allowed).
I’ll present a special prize to the 12-or-under contestant who makes the best toss. Deb Bosanek will be the judge.
At 8:30 a.m., a new Berkshire movie will be shown. An hour later, we will start the question-and-answer
period, which (with a break for lunch at CenturyLink’s stands) will last until 3:30 p.m. After a short recess, Charlie
and I will convene the annual meeting at 3:45 p.m. This business session typically lasts only a half hour or so.
Your venue for shopping will be the 194,300-square-foot hall that adjoins the meeting and in which
products from dozens of Berkshire subsidiaries will be for sale. If you don’t get your shopping done on Friday, slip
out while Charlie’s talking on Saturday and binge on our bargains. Check the terrific BNSF railroad layout also.
Even though I’m 84, it still excites me.
Last year you did your part as a shopper, and most of our businesses racked up record sales. In a nine-hour
period on Saturday, we sold 1,385 pairs of Justin boots (that’s a pair every 23 seconds), 13,440 pounds of See’s
candy, 7,276 pairs of Wells Lamont work gloves and 10,000 bottles of Heinz ketchup. Heinz has a new mustard
product, so both mustard and ketchup will be available this year. (Buy both!) Now that we are open for business on
Friday as well, we expect new records in every precinct.
Brooks, our running-shoe company, will again have a special commemorative shoe to offer at the
meeting. After you purchase a pair, wear them the next day at our third annual “Berkshire 5K,” an 8 a.m. race
starting at the CenturyLink. Full details for participating will be included in the Visitor’s Guide that will be sent to
you with your credentials for the meeting. Entrants in the race will find themselves running alongside many of
Berkshire’s managers, directors and associates. (Charlie and I, however, will sleep in.)
A GEICO booth in the shopping area will be staffed by a number of the company’s top counselors from
around the country. Stop by for a quote. In most cases, GEICO will be able to give you a shareholder discount
(usually 8%). This special offer is permitted by 44 of the 51 jurisdictions in which we operate. (One supplemental
point: The discount is not additive if you qualify for another discount, such as that available to certain groups.)
Bring the details of your existing insurance and check out our price. We can save many of you real money.
Be sure to visit the Bookworm. It will carry about 35 books and DVDs, among them a couple of new
titles. Last year, many shareholders purchased Max Olson’s compilation of Berkshire letters going back to 1965,
and he has produced an updated edition for the meeting. We also expect to be selling an inexpensive book
commemorating our fifty years. It’s currently a work in process, but I expect it to contain a wide variety of historical
material, including documents from the 19th Century.
An attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the
credential you will need for admission to both the meeting and other events. Airlines have sometimes jacked up
prices for the Berkshire weekend. If you are coming from far away, compare the cost of flying to Kansas City vs.
Omaha. The drive between the two cities is about 2 1⁄ 2 hours, and it may be that Kansas City can save you
significant money, particularly if you had planned to rent a car in Omaha. The savings for a couple could run to
$1,000 or more. Spend that money with us.
At Nebraska Furniture Mart, located on a 77-acre site on 72nd Street between Dodge and Pacific, we will
again be having “Berkshire Weekend” discount pricing. Last year in the week surrounding the meeting, the store did
a record $40,481,817 of business. (An average week for NFM’s Omaha store is about $9 million.)

20

To obtain the Berkshire discount at NFM, you must make your purchases between Tuesday, April 28th
and Monday, May 4th inclusive, and also present your meeting credential. The period’s special pricing will even
apply to the products of several prestigious manufacturers that normally have ironclad rules against discounting but
which, in the spirit of our shareholder weekend, have made an exception for you. We appreciate their cooperation.
NFM is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on Saturday and 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.
on Sunday. From 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday, NFM is having a picnic to which you are all invited.
At Borsheims, we will again have two shareholder-only events. The first will be a cocktail reception from
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, May 1st. The second, the main gala, will be held on Sunday, May 3rd, from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m. On Saturday, we will remain open until 6 p.m. In recent years, our three-day volume has far exceeded our sales
in all of December, normally a jeweler’s best month.
We will have huge crowds at Borsheims throughout the weekend. For your convenience, therefore,
shareholder prices will be available from Monday, April 27th through Saturday, May 9th. During that period, please
identify yourself as a shareholder by presenting your meeting credentials or a brokerage statement that shows you
are a Berkshire holder.
On Sunday, in the mall outside of Borsheims, Norman Beck, a remarkable magician from Dallas, will
bewilder onlookers. Additionally, we will have Bob Hamman and Sharon Osberg, two of the world’s top bridge
experts, available to play bridge with our shareholders on Sunday afternoon. Don’t play them for money.
My friend, Ariel Hsing, will be in the mall as well on Sunday, taking on challengers at table tennis. I met
Ariel when she was nine and even then I was unable to score a point against her. Now, she’s a sophomore at
Princeton, having already represented the United States in the 2012 Olympics. If you don’t mind embarrassing
yourself, test your skills against her, beginning at 1 p.m. Bill Gates and I will lead off and try to soften her up.
Gorat’s and Piccolo’s will again be open exclusively for Berkshire shareholders on Sunday, May 3rd.
Both will be serving until 10 p.m., with Gorat’s opening at 1 p.m. and Piccolo’s opening at 4 p.m. These restaurants
are my favorites, and I will eat at both of them on Sunday evening. Remember: To make a reservation at Gorat’s,
call 402-551-3733 on April 1st (but not before); for Piccolo’s, call 402-346-2865. At Piccolo’s, order a giant root
beer float for dessert. Only sissies get the small one.
We will again have the same three financial journalists lead the question-and-answer period at the
meeting, asking Charlie and me questions that shareholders have submitted to them by e-mail. The journalists and
their e-mail addresses are: Carol Loomis, who retired last year after sixty years at Fortune, but remains the expert on
business and financial matters, and who may be e-mailed at loomisbrk@gmail.com; Becky Quick, of CNBC, at
BerkshireQuestions@cnbc.com; and Andrew Ross Sorkin, of The New York Times, at arsorkin@nytimes.com.
From the questions submitted, each journalist will choose the six he or she decides are the most
interesting and important. The journalists have told me your question has the best chance of being selected if you
keep it concise, avoid sending it in at the last moment, make it Berkshire-related and include no more than two
questions in any e-mail you send them. (In your e-mail, let the journalist know if you would like your name
mentioned if your question is asked.)
We will also have a panel of three analysts who follow Berkshire. This year the insurance specialist will
be Gary Ransom of Dowling & Partners. Questions that deal with our non-insurance operations will come from
Jonathan Brandt of Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb and Gregg Warren of Morningstar. Our hope is that the analysts and
journalists will ask questions that add to our owners’ understanding and knowledge of their investment.

21

Neither Charlie nor I will get so much as a clue about the questions headed our way. Some will be tough,
for sure, and that’s the way we like it. All told we expect at least 54 questions, which will allow for six from each
analyst and journalist and for 18 from the audience. (Last year we had 62 in total.) The questioners from the
audience will be chosen by means of 11 drawings that will take place at 8:15 a.m. on the morning of the annual
meeting. Each of the 11 microphones installed in the arena and main overflow room will host, so to speak, a
drawing.
While I’m on the subject of our owners’ gaining knowledge, let me remind you that Charlie and I believe
all shareholders should simultaneously have access to new information that Berkshire releases and should also have
adequate time to analyze it. That’s why we try to issue financial data late on Fridays or early on Saturdays and why
our annual meeting is always held on a Saturday. We do not talk one-on-one to large institutional investors or
analysts, treating them instead as we do all other shareholders.
************
We get terrific help at meeting time from literally thousands of Omaha residents and businesses who
want you to enjoy yourselves. This year, because we expect record attendance, we have worried about a shortage of
hotel rooms. To deal with that possible problem, Airbnb is making a special effort to obtain listings for the period
around meeting time and is likely to have a wide array of accommodations to offer. Airbnb’s services may be
especially helpful to shareholders who expect to spend only a single night in Omaha and are aware that last year a
few hotels required guests to pay for a minimum of three nights. That gets expensive. Those people on a tight
budget should check the Airbnb website.
************
For good reason, I regularly extol the accomplishments of our operating managers. They are truly AllStars who run their businesses as if they were the only asset owned by their families. I believe the mindset of our
managers also to be as shareholder-oriented as can be found in the universe of large publicly-owned companies.
Most of our managers have no financial need to work. The joy of hitting business “home runs” means as much to
them as their paycheck.
Equally important, however, are the 24 men and women who work with me at our corporate office. This
group efficiently deals with a multitude of SEC and other regulatory requirements, files a 24,100-page Federal
income tax return and oversees the filing of 3,400 state tax returns, responds to countless shareholder and media
inquiries, gets out the annual report, prepares for the country’s largest annual meeting, coordinates the Board’s
activities – and the list goes on and on.
They handle all of these business tasks cheerfully and with unbelievable efficiency, making my life easy
and pleasant. Their efforts go beyond activities strictly related to Berkshire: Last year they dealt with the 40
universities (selected from 200 applicants) who sent students to Omaha for a Q&A day with me. They also handle
all kinds of requests that I receive, arrange my travel, and even get me hamburgers and french fries (smothered in
Heinz ketchup, of course) for lunch. No CEO has it better; I truly do feel like tap dancing to work every day.
Last year, for the annual report, we dropped our 48-year-old “no pictures” policy – who says I’m not
flexible? – and ran a photo of our remarkable home-office crew that was taken at our Christmas lunch. I didn’t warn
the gang of the public exposure they were to receive, so they didn’t have on their Sunday best. This year was a
different story: On the facing page you will see what our group looks like when they think someone will be noticing.
However they dress, their performance is mind-boggling.
Come meet them on May 2nd and enjoy our Woodstock for Capitalists.
February 27, 2015
